[Scene: Open area. Vizzini is seated behind a covered table.
Buttercup, blindfolded, is sitting to his left. On the table is a
bottle of wine and two goblets. Roberts approaches the Table]

Vizzini:    So it is down to you, and it is down to me. If you
            wish her dead, by all means, keep moving forward.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Let me explain--

Vizzini:    There's nothing to explain. You're trying to kidnap
            what I have rightfully stolen.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Perhaps an arrangement can be reached?

Vizzini:    There will be no arrangement, and you're killing her.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Well if there can be no arrangement, then we are at
            an impasse.

Vizzini:    I'm afraid so. I can't compete with you physically,
            and you're no match for my brains.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            You're that smart?

Vizzini:    Let me put it this way: have you ever heard of Plato,
            Aristotle, Socrates?

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Yes.

Vizzini:    Morons.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Really. [pause] In that case, I challenge you to a
            battle of wits.

Vizzini:    For the princess? < Pirate nods > To the death? <
            Pirate nods > I accept.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Good. Then pour the wine.

            [Roberts pulls out a small vial, and uncorks it]

            Inhale this, but do not touch.

Vizzini:    I smell nothing.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            What you do not smell is called Iocane powder. It is
            odorless, tasteless, dissolves instantly in liquid,
            and is among the more deadly poisons known to man.

Vizzini:    Hmmmm.

Dread Pirate Roberts: < turns away from Vizzini with the goblets,
            and pours the poison in. Goblets replaced on the
            table, one in front of each. >

            All right. Where is the poison? The battle of wits
            has begun. It ends when you decide and we both
            drink, and find out who is right...and who is dead.

Vizzini:    But it's so simple. All I have to do is divine from
            what I know of you: are you the sort of man who
            would put the poison into his own goblet or his
            enemy's? Now, a clever man would put the poison into
            his own goblet, because he would know that only a
            great fool would reach for what he was given. I am
            not a great fool, so I can clearly not choose the
            wine in front of you. But you must have known I was
            not a great fool, you would have counted on it, so I
            can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            You've made your decision then?

Vizzini:    Not remotely. Because iocane comes from Australia, as
            everyone knows, and Australia is entirely peopled
            with criminals, and criminals are used to having
            people not trust them, as you are not trusted by me,
            so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of
            you.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Truly, you have a dizzying intellect.

Vizzini:    WAIT TILL I GET GOING! Where was I?

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            Australia.

Vizzini:    Yes, Australia. And you must have suspected I would
            have known the powder's origin, so I can clearly not
            choose the wine in front of me.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            You're just stalling now.

Vizzini:    You'd like to think that, wouldn't you? You've beaten
            my giant, which means you're exceptionally strong,
            so you could've put the poison in your own goblet,
            trusting on your strength to save you, so I can
            clearly not choose the wine in front of you. But,
            you've also bested my Spaniard, which means you must
            have studied, and in studying you must have learned
            that man is mortal, so you would have put the poison
            as far from yourself as possible, so I can clearly
            not choose the wine in front of me.

Dread Pirate Roberts:

            You're trying to trick me into giving away something.
            It won't work.

